README.md, before:

Cyc Core API Suite
==================

The core Java APIs for interacting with the Cyc inference engine and knowledge 
base. This package includes the following:

* **KB API** - Streamlines the lookup and creation of terms and assertions in
  the Cyc knowledge base.
* **Query API** - Tools for asking arbitrarily complex questions of a Cyc
  server, and dealing with the answers.
* **Session API** - Manages configurations and connections to Cyc servers.
* **Base Client** - Client for connecting to a Cyc server and handling HL data;
  _not supported for external developers_.

For more information, visit the [Cyc Developer Center](http://dev.cyc.com/).

Requirements
------------

* `JDK 1.7` or greater to build; code can be run on Java 6.
* An EnterpriseCyc or ResearchCyc server running at least system `10.152303`. 
  The current version of the Cyc API suite is _not_ compatible with the latest 
  4.0 OpenCyc release. For inquiries about obtaining a suitable version of
  EnterpriseCyc or ResearchCyc, visit the 
  [Cyc Dev Center download page](http://dev.cyc.com/cyc-api/download.html).
* [Apache Maven](http://maven.apache.org/), version `3.2` or
  higher. If you are new to Maven, you may wish to view the
  [quick start](http://maven.apache.org/run-maven/index.html).

Getting Started
---------------

**Note:** Installing this project will run all of the API test suites. It is
_strongly recommended_ to only run the API test suites against a 
_fresh Cyc server instance_ dedicated to that purpose. The API tests may alter
a Cyc server's KB contents.

Within the CycCoreAPI project, issue the following command:

    mvn install

This will run the test suites for all of the sub-projects, and will pop up a 
GUI panel asking for a Cyc server address. If you are running in a headless 
environment, or wish to specify the server at the command line, use the 
following instead:

    mvn install -Dcyc.session.server=[SOME_HOST_NAME]:[SOME_BASE_PORT]

For example:

    mvn install -Dcyc.session.server=localhost:3600

Alternately, if you wish to install without running unit tests:

    mvn install -DskipTests=true 

Installing the `CycCoreAPI` project will install all of its sub-projects. Once 
you have done so, you can then re-build or re-install any sub-projects 
independently. See each project's `README.md` for details.

Further Documentation
---------------------

For the latest API documentation and news, or to ask questions, visit the 
[Cyc Developer Center](http://dev.cyc.com/). 

Code samples may be downloaded from the [CoreAPIUseCases](https://github.com/cycorp/CoreAPIUseCases)
project.

Contact
-------

Issues may be reported via this project's
[GitHub issue tracker](https://github.com/cycorp/CycCoreAPI/issues).

For questions about the APIs or general issues with using them, please visit the
[Cyc Dev Center](http://dev.cyc.com/cyc-api/issues.html).

Commit message:

Substantial refactoring, adds CoreAPISpec & CoreAPIBundle.
Adds Core API Specification module (`cyc-core-api` in CoreAPISpec) to consolidate and clarify the interfaces which define the Core API Suite.
* KB API interfaces moved into CoreAPISpec.
* Session API interfaces moved into CoreAPISpec.

Adds Core API Suite Bundle module (`cyc-core-suite` in CoreAPIBundle) which packages all API interfaces and implementation classes.
* Produces a single `cyc-core-suite` artifact which can be specified instead of individually specifying cyc-session, cyc-kb, etc.
* Builds a single jar (in maven parlance, an "uberjar") which contains all of its dependencies. Useful for some environments where it is complicated to pull binaries down from the Internet.

Other changes:
* Fixes tests which were failing against EnterpriseCyc.
* KB API test suite should no longer seem to hang per issue 1 (https://github.com/cycorp/CycCoreAPI/issues/1).
* Updates developer email address in pom files to one which people can actually send mail to.
* Assorted updates in pom files to name and description elements.

README.md, after:

Cyc Core API Suite
==================

The core Java APIs for interacting with the Cyc inference engine and knowledge 
base. This package includes the following:

* **KB API** - Streamlines the lookup and creation of terms and assertions in
  the Cyc knowledge base.
* **Query API** - Tools for asking arbitrarily complex questions of a Cyc
  server, and dealing with the answers.
* **Session API** - Manages configurations and connections to Cyc servers.
* **Base Client** - Client for connecting to a Cyc server and handling HL data;
  _not supported for external developers_.

For more information, visit the [Cyc Developer Center](http://dev.cyc.com/).

Requirements
------------

### Java

* `JDK 1.7` or greater to build; code can be run on Java 6.
* [Apache Maven](http://maven.apache.org/), version `3.2` or
  higher. If you are new to Maven, you may wish to view the
  [quick start](http://maven.apache.org/run-maven/index.html).

### Cyc Server

The following Cyc server releases are supported:

* **ResearchCyc 4.0q** or higher.
* **EnterpriseCyc 1.7-preview** or higher.

The Core API Suite is _not_ presently compatible with any current release of **OpenCyc.**

For inquiries about obtaining a suitable version of ResearchCyc or EnterpriseCyc, please visit the
[Cyc Dev Center download page](http://dev.cyc.com/cyc-api/download.html).

Getting Started
---------------

**Note:** Installing this project will run all of the API test suites. It is
_strongly recommended_ to only run the API test suites against a 
_fresh Cyc server instance_ dedicated to that purpose. The API tests may alter
a Cyc server's KB contents.

Within the CycCoreAPI project, issue the following command:

    mvn install

This will run the test suites for all of the sub-projects, and will pop up a 
GUI panel asking for a Cyc server address. If you are running in a headless 
environment, or wish to specify the server at the command line, use the 
following instead:

    mvn install -Dcyc.session.server=[HOST_NAME]:[BASE_PORT]

For example:

    mvn install -Dcyc.session.server=localhost:3600

Alternately, if you wish to install without running unit tests:

    mvn install -DskipTests=true 

Installing the `CycCoreAPI` project will install all of its sub-projects. Once 
you have done so, you can then re-build or re-install any sub-projects 
independently. See each project's `README.md` for details.

Further Documentation
---------------------

For the latest API documentation and news, or to ask questions, visit the 
[Cyc Developer Center](http://dev.cyc.com/). 

Code samples may be downloaded from the [CoreAPIUseCases](https://github.com/cycorp/CoreAPIUseCases)
project.

Contact
-------

Issues may be reported via this project's
[GitHub issue tracker](https://github.com/cycorp/CycCoreAPI/issues).

For questions about the APIs or general issues with using them, please visit the
[Cyc Dev Center](http://dev.cyc.com/cyc-api/issues.html).
